PicoScenes: CSI-based Wi-Fi Sensing Research, Supercharged!
=============================================================

PicoScenes is a versatile and powerful middleware for CSI-based Wi-Fi sensing research. It helps researchers **overcome two key barriers of modern Wi-Fi sensing research: inadequate sensing hardware and incapable measurement software**.

**Hardware aspect**:

PicoScenes **supports the most models of CSI-extractable frontend hardware**, including three commercial Wi-Fi NIC models and software-defined radio (SDR). Specifically, PicoScenes supports the Intel Wi-Fi 6 AX200 (AX200), Qualcomm Atheros AR9300 (QCA9300), Intel Wireless Link 5300 (IWL5300), all models of the USRP-based SDR devices and even the virtual SDR device.

Based on the AX200 NIC, PicoScenes is the first and currently the only public-available platform that enables **CSI extraction for the 802.11ax-format frames using the commodity Wi-Fi hardware**. More specifically, the platform supports **CSI extraction for all formats (802.11/a/g/n/ac/ax) and all bandwidths (20/40/80/160 MHz)**. Besides that, PicoScenes also enables the **CSI measurement for all overheard frames** in monitor mode, which *unprecedentedly transforms all the surrounding Wi-Fi devices into the signal sources of your sensing application*.

For the QCA9300 NIC, PicoScenes enables the **monitor mode-injection style CSI measurement** and unlocks the **arbitrary tuning for both the carrier frequency and baseband sampling rate** (a total of 2.4 GHz spectrum available and 2.5 to 80 MHz bandwidth), enables the **manual Rx gain control** (0 to 66 dB), QCA9300->IWL5300 CSI measurement, the Tx/Rx radio-chain specification and transmission of the extra spatial sounding LTFs (HT-ELTFs).

For SDR, PicoScenes integrates a high-performance software baseband implementation for 802.11a/g/n/ac/ax protocols. It has four major highlights, protocol support, PHY-layer control, performance and virtual SDR. 

- PicoScenes Wi-Fi baseband implementation **covers almost all the advanced technical features**, including the LDPC and BCC codecs, MCS 0~11 modulation, 20 to 160 MHz channel bandwidth (CBW) formats, up to 4x4 MIMO and even the 802.11ac/ax multi-user (MU) mode. 
- PicoScenes **grants users full control over the PHY-layer parameters**, such as the manual specification for the carrier frequency offset (CFO), sampling frequency offset (SFO), symbol timing offset (STO), I/Q mismatching and many OFDM encoding/decoding settings.
- PicoScenes sets **a series of performance records for SDR**, such as up to 1 kHz CSI measurement at a 20 MHz bandwidth, up to 4 kHz and up to 40 kHz insanely fast packet injection rates in real-time and signal-replay modes, respectively.
- PicoScenes features a handy *Virtual SDR* mode, which provides users a convenient way to generate, manipulate and test decoding the Wi-Fi baseband signals **without connecting to an actual SDR device**.

**Software aspect**: 

PicoScenes is far beyond a simple CSI data logger but a versatile Wi-Fi sensing platform. As far as we know, It is the first and currently the only platform that supports **multi-NIC concurrent CSI measurement**, which significantly simplifies the array-based CSI measurement. Besides that, it also features the **all-format and all-bandwidth packet injection**, which promises a fixed-rate CSI measurement, live CSI plot and various low-level controls. 

As a Wi-Fi sensing middleware, PicoScenes encapsulates the per-NIC low-level hardware controls into a set of unified APIs and exposes them to the upper-level plugin layer. Through the PicoScenes plugin mechanism, **complex and interactive CSI measurement tasks can be easily prototyped in a mission-focus manner**. We demonstrate this advantage by EchoProbe, a PicoScenes plugin, which features *ms*-grade round-trip CSI measurement, large spectrum scanning and the most basic CSI data logging capabilities. 

PicoScenes MATLAB Toolbox (PMT) is the MATLAB parsing routine for the *.csi* file generated by the PicoScenes. The parsing can be as easy as just **dragging the .csi files into MATLAB**. The fundamental data structure is in versioned-segment format, which guarantees forward compatibility across the future upgrade.

The PicoScenes software ecosystem (customized driver, platform, and plugins) is **built against the latest kernel, packaged in the Debian .deb format, and auto-updated via the easy** *apt upgrade* **command**. A fresh-new installation can be as short as 5 minutes. Setting up a CSI-measurement environment never can be such easy!

You may refer to :doc:`why` to learn more about PicoScenes. We hope you enjoy the next ride of Wi-Fi sensing research, supercharged by PicoScenes!

News!
======

- Oct. 10, 2021 Add :doc:`hardware` page
- Oct. 4, 2021 Add versioning and auto-update for PicoScenes MATLAB Toolbox 
- Oct. 3, 2021 Announcing the AX200 support officially!


.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :numbered:
   :caption: Table of Contents:
   
   why
   gallery
   users
   hardware
   installation
   scenarios
   parameters
   matlab
   utilities
   troubleshooting
   plugin
   status
   resources
   License
   credits
